# 4.3 Maintenance and Future Development

## Current Limitations of Project

* Game has a relatively small amount of content, most likely only suitable for play sessions around 10 or so minutes long.
* The final product is very different from original vision for the game. Certain features such as boss phases, weapons and an 'end' to the game. While i am satisfied with the final product, it does not match the original vision that i had for the game. This was mainly due to my original plan being much more difficult to code than I had anticipated.
* Graphics have a lot of room for improvement. While the game's current graphics do the job that they are needed for, the game's graphics could add more appeal to the game if they were more detailed, as this would make the game feel more polished and add more quality to the product.
* The game is exclusively accesible to PC platforms.

## Maintenance

As for maintenance, there is only currently one known bug in the game, that being the one involving issues with switching between the start screen and the info screen.&#x20;

In terms of adding more content to the game, maintenance could be done in multiple different areas of the game to build up on top of the game that has already been created.

## Future Development

### Short Term Bug Fixes

* An additional variable exclusively made for switching between the start menu and the info screen.

### Long Term Addressing Limitations

### Low content amount and Original product vision

* The boss could receive a major rework that would ultimately shift the focus of the game and change the objective from reaching a high score to defeating the boss. This would involve a multitude of changes. The boss would have a huge health count instead of disappearing and reappearing when hit. It would have a wider variety of attacks and would have different phases for the player to get through. For this to work though, the player will need a way of fighting back and dealing damage to the boss.
* Like originally planned, attacks and different weapons could be added to the player's arsenal to make it possible to take down the boss and win the game.&#x20;
* As the features mentioned above would make the game no longer endless and have a long-term goal instead, the game would need to have 'checkpoints' instead of restarting after each death.&#x20;
* The game would have a dodge mechanic. This would both provide another interesting gameplay feature and allow for more creativity when making boss attacks.

### Graphics



* &#x20;The art style of the game could be made more detailed and unique to make it stand out and just generally look better, providing a better player experience.
* Items such as the various different blocks and attacks could have actual sprites instead of being simple coloured squares. This would both make the game generally look better, and would also make it so that the player wouldn't have to memorize each item off of only colour.
* Sprites could have more animations. The only current sprite animation present in the game is the invincibility animation, which is simply a flash between different colour palettes. Animations add more immersion to the game experiences.

### Platform exclusivity&#x20;

The game could be ported to other platforms by making it a piece of software or application instead of being browser-based. Different controls would need to be made for each platform. This would be a feasible task as the game's controls are fairly simple with not too many different inputs being required.

