# 1.4b Computational Methods

## Thinking Abstractly and Visualisation

Thinking abstractly involves dissecting the problem into only the core relevant subjects and cutting out any unnecessary information. It is a useful thinking method to use for game design as it allows a developer to focus on making the core game work properly before diving into secondary goals such as graphical enhancements and music.

* Creating a solid stage layout that the player can freely move across and use to dodge boss attacks. This is a core objective as gameplay cannot possibly happen without a medium for the player to move across and attacks to be based around.
* Creating a boss that executes attack patterns correctly. The boss is the main focus of my game, and provides the player with a main threat and a main objective. Without the boss, the game would consist of an empty arena that the player can run and jump around.
* Creating a playable character with movement and attacking abilities. The character is the medium for the player to actually play the game, and all of the players will directly affect their character.
* Creating a pool of weapons and perks for the player to use. The weapons will be what the player uses to combat the boss and the game cant be completed without them.
* A UI that gives the player the necessary information needed to play the game. The player will need UI to keep track of what tools they have available to them, how to use them, and the condition of their character and the boss. They will be able to act accordingly given this information.



## Thinking Ahead

Thinking ahead involves thinking about the end goals of a project, and recognising the tasks that will need to be undergone in order to come together and achieve the final goal. This is a helpful thinking process for game design. Game designers usually have a strong idea of the product they wish to create, but it is important to think about what they will need to do to achieve that goal to understand if it is attainable or not. We often see new games get announced, and then get delayed later on. This could be seen as an example of not enough thinking ahead.



My end goal is to create an exciting and challenging game that consists of a single long boss fight with multiple weapons available to defeat it. Inputs that i will have to make to generate a satisfactory output will include tasks such as coding different attacks as the boss fight goes on. Some things will never change during the process, such as the controls or the size of the stage scene.

## Thinking Procedurally and Decomposition

## Thinking Logically

## Thinking Concurrently
